The mechanism by which Prime-Ex Perpetual affects disruptive change to the real estate ecosystem is by replacing and/or modifying interest rate risk with equity participation.  This is accomplished by creating a package within a legal non-person entity that contains legal ownership of the property and the debt structure of the anticipated retail sale of the product from the very beginning.  As the property passes along from one owner to another, this structures passes along with it.

While Prime-Ex Perpetual creates the non-person entity, shares of the non-person entity, the property purchased, and the real estate improvements built out from within the entity, ownership of the shares for the non-person entity are not declared until final sale.  Rather, they are held in the custody of the Escrow Agent under explicitly tight controls as determined by the Prime-Ex Administrator.  When the sale of the property is accomplished, it is accomplished by simply issuing the shares of the new owners into the owner’s name, and the Escrow Agent retains control of those shares within Escrow under the terms of the executed Escrow Agreement until the underlying debt structure is paid off under the terms and conditions of the Promissory Note that the new owners execute.  

This contractual arrangement retains ultimate control of the property within the power of the Prime-Ex Administrator through strict controls of the Escrow Agreement agreed to by the parties up front in a manner that avoids traditional, complex and protracted court battles regarding legal disputes and collection activity.  Rather, the Prime-Ex Administrator, via the Escrow Agreement and the empowered Escrow Agent, can simply sign over the shares of the non-person entity and thus ownership of the underlying property back to Prime-Ex Perpetual and the property is immediately offered for sale once more.  This method of ownership and debt structure is superior than traditional structure as it is a more fair deal for both the lender and the buyer/borrower.  

By structuring the deal within a legal non-person entity contractual arrangement, the transaction becomes essentially an investment purchase with the hope of anticipated equity gains rather than a loan to a traditional homeowner that is ultimately either originated, purchased, and/or owned by the government.  The borrower simply performs the agreement, or the lender simply takes back possession immediately, without any bureaucratic complications and interference.  

Prime-Ex Perpetual utilizes a legal non-person entity similar to a limited liability company, the legal designation of such entity subject to change depending on the locale of the project approved by the cooperative.  Escrow Agreements will be managed by an Escrow Agent who has been awarded a contract executed by the cooperative.  
